Add documentation for changing the Link API request body to match the… (#1842)
FusionAuth/fusionauth-site: site/docs/v1/tech/apis/identity-providers/links.adoc

== Link a User

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Link a User
[.endpoint]

[NOTE.since]
====
Available Since Version 1.43.0
====

> This API is used to create a link between a FusionAuth user and a user in a 3rd party identity provider. This API may be useful when you already know the unique Id of a user in a 3rd party identity provider and the corresponding FusionAuth user.

Reviewer: You've changed the order here, this text should go right under the heading.

Reviewer: I handled.

[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#POST# [uri]#/api/identity-provider/link#
--

==== Request Body

[.api]

> [field]#identityProviderLink.displayName# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional# [since]#Available since 1.28.1#::

Reviewer: This is a new API, you don't need an additional since flag.

Reviewer: I handled.

This API is used to create a link between a FusionAuth user and a user in a 3rd party identity provider. This API may be useful when you already know the unique Id of a user in a 3rd party identity provider and the corresponding FusionAuth user.

=== Request
[NOTE.since]
====

> This API endpoint has been available since 1.43.0

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This API endpoint has been available since 1.43.0.
```

Reviewer 2: Weird to have this two places. I think it would make sense to leave this here and leave line 11 at 1.28.

> ====

Reviewer: Can we use consistent wording here? See other APIs with this type of notice. 

Example:

```

[NOTE.since]
====
Available Since Version 1.43.0
====
```

Since this API request isn't new - should this just go after `==== Request Body`? or delete it and just add the new fields to the existing doc with a since flag, and mark old ones deprecated? 

@mooreds any preference?

Reviewer 2: Consistency is good. 

My concern with adding new fields to the existing done and marking the old ones as deprecated is that a user could mix and match the old and new fields in a way that would be kinda weird. 

```
{
  "identityProviderLink" : {
    "displayName" : "richard@piedpiper.com",
  },
  "identityProviderId": "f50dbb83-4cc2-4e5e-aece-9efe068bddd9",
  "identityProviderUserId": "42",
  "userId": "fbf0e652-b2b5-45eb-b9c9-d4640889740b"
}
```

Would that even work? Or would it fail validation?

Reviewer: I think it would work -would have to test - but it could be the result is un-predictable, it would depend upon the order that Jackson processes the request. Good point though - let's keep them separate.

==== Request Body

[.api]
[field]#identityProviderLink.displayName# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional# [since]#Available since 1.28.1#::
A human-readable value identifying the user in the remote identity provider.
+

> After the link is created, and a user successfully logs in for the first time with the IdP, this value will typically be set to an email or username.

Reviewer: I think you lost the context of this comment on the re-write. The original comment was describing what happens when the value is omitted because it is optional. Can you also verify the previous comment was correct, do we set it if not provided?

Author: Based on the code path for the Google Identity Provider, I would say this is correct that FusionAuth will resolve it the next time a user logs in. Based on here: io/fusionauth/api/service/authentication/GoogleIdentityProviderAuthenticationService.java:82 and here io/fusionauth/api/service/authentication/BaseIdentityProviderAuthenticationService.java:648, it seems we are either using the email or username returned on the id_token returned from Google Login and then updating or creating an existing link. After manually creating a link, and then logging in, I now see two Google Links on my user account. I will write a test to see if this is an error on my part or a small bug in the way we update a link. leaving my draft description below until I finish testing.

This value is optional and it will always be set by FusionAuth the next time this link is used to resolve the FusionAuth user during a login event for this IdP. This value will typically be set to an email or username when the user is resolved, depending on Identity Provider and the linking strategy.

Author: I was able to get the link to update with the correct `displayName`. Since my Google JWT was scoped for email, and I was using link on email, the displayName did update to my email address. 👍

Author: I think the original description is better:

A human-readable name for this link for identification and convenience. This value will generally be an email address or username. This value can be set by the API caller. So for instance, this value could be `Initial piedpiper link from user migration`. This value will be updated during the next login for the linked user based on the identity provider (`richard@piedpiper.com`, for instance). This value may not necessarily reflect the username or email you used to authenticate with the 3rd party identity provider.

Author: My edited version of the original:

A human-readable name to identify the link. This value will be updated during the next login for the linked user based on the linking strategy for the Identity Provider and the values returned by the Identity Provider. This value may not necessarily reflect the username or email you used to authenticate with the linked Identity Provider.

[field]#identityProviderLink.identityProviderId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#::

> The Id of the existing Identity Provider.

Reviewer: Can we just say `The Id of the identify provider you wish to link to the user.`?

==== Request Body

[.api]
[field]#identityProviderLink.displayName# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional# [since]#Available since 1.28.1#::

> A human-readable name for this link when initially created. This value should be used to make it easier to identify the user this link represents in the remote identity provider.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A human-readable value identifying the user in the remote identity provider.
```

Author: @mooreds 👍 
"The most valuable of all talents is that of never using a bazillion words when one will do" ~ Thomas Moore Jefferson

+

> After the link is created, and a user first successfully logs in with the IdP they are linked to, this value will typically be set to either an email or username.

Reviewer 2: Can we leave this sentence off?

Author: 👍

[field]#identityProviderLink.identityProviderId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#::

> The Id of the identity provider. This identity provider must exist.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Id of the Identity Provider. This Identity Provider must exist.
```

We're not super consistent about this, but whenever we are referring to a FusionAuth config object, we should capitalize it.

[field]#identityProviderLink.identityProviderUserId# [type]#[String]# [required]#Required#::

> The Id for the User that is provided by the identity provider. This is the value that will allow FusionAuth to link this user on future logins. It is expected to be immutable.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Id for the User that is provided by the upstream identity provider. This is the value that will allow FusionAuth to link this user on future logins. It must be immutable.
```

include::docs/src/json/identity-providers/links/create-link-request.json[]
----

=== Request

> 

Reviewer 2: So this is the preferred method (to wrap everything in the JSON in an `identityProviderLink` object). We should put it first and add deprecated to the other call request method. I don't know if we have an example of an entire call being deprecated, so I'd wing it with what looks good. (you mentioned this in the description of this PR, but it needs to be done before you release it).

I think you should mark the old ones as deprecated, not remove them, since the new method would break with versions before 1.43.

I was confused by the existence of two of the same methods, but now I get it. You might even add a note in front of the old ones, saying something like "This method is functionally equivalent to the above method, but the above method is more consistent with other APIs. Use of this method is deprecated."

You also need to add a `since` field to the new API options.

Author: ![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/12218379/221269644-8496f5a5-db0d-4a3f-a6e3-50789f96bcf6.png)

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Link a User
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#POST# [uri]#/api/identity-provider/link#
--

==== Request Body

[.api]
[field]#identityProviderLink.displayName# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional# [since]#Available since 1.28.1#::
A human readable name for this link. This value should be used to make it easier to identify the user this link represents in the remote identity provider.
+

> This value is optional and it will always be set by FusionAuth the next time this link is used to resolve the FusionAuth user during a login event for this IdP.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It will always be set by FusionAuth the next time this link is used to resolve the FusionAuth user during a login event for this IdP.
```

Reviewer 2: No need to mention it is optional, already handled in the API line.

Reviewer 2: But I don't understand what you mean by "will be set...". What is it set to? Why even have it if it is overwritten all the time?

Reviewer 2: Hmm, I see you were consistent with other parts of this doc. I am still not sure what this means. Do you understand it?

Author: > A human-readable name for this link when initially created. This value should be used to make it easier to identify the user this link represents in the remote identity provider.
> 
> After the link is created, and a user first successfully logs in with the IdP they are linked to, this value will typically be set to either an email or username.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/identity-providers/_links-post-response-body.adoc[]

=== Request
[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Link a User
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#POST# [uri]#/api/identity-provider/link#
--
[WARNING.deprecated]
====
While this endpoint is still functional, its usage is discouraged. Please use the link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/identity-providers/links#link-a-user[Link a User endpoint] which expects an `identityProviderLink` object if your version of FusionAuth is 1.43.0 or above.

> ====

Reviewer: If we keep it documented this way, I think we should move up the deprecated warning to above the request?

Reviewer 2: Looking at this, I think we should create a `Link a user - deprecated` and `Complete a pending link - deprecated` sections to the API. Put them at the bottom and give a complete request/response pair. @jaywood128 does that make sense?

Author: Sure, I can remove each and put them at the bottom. 👍

==== Request Body

[.api]
[field]#displayName# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional# [since]#Available since 1.28.1#::
A human-readable name for this link when initially created. This value should be used to make it easier to identify the user this link represents in the remote identity provider.
+
After the link is created, and a user successfully logs in for the first time with the IdP, this value will typically be set to an email or username.

[field]#identityProviderId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#::
The Id of the identity provider. This identity provider must exist.

[field]#identityProviderUserId# [type]#[String]# [required]#Required#::
The Id for the User that is provided by the identity provider. This is the value that will allow FusionAuth to link this user on future logins. It is expected to be immutable.

[field]#userId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#::
The FusionAuth Id of the User that is being linked to the identity provider.

> 

Reviewer: Should these deprecated fields just be left in the original API doc and marked as deprecated instead of making a separate request?

[source,json]
.Example Request JSON
----
include::docs/src/json/identity-providers/links/create-link-request-deprecated.json[]
----

== Complete a pending Link

This API is used complete a pending link. If an identity provider is configured with a linking strategy of `Create a pending link`, a `pendingLinkId` will be returned by the Identity Provider API (see the `Complete the Login` section for each respective IdP). This value can be used in the request below.

=== Request
[NOTE.since]
====
This API endpoint has been available since 1.43.0

> ====

Reviewer: See comment above.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/identity-providers/_links-post-response-body.adoc[]

=== Request
[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Link a User
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#POST# [uri]#/api/identity-provider/link#
--
[WARNING.deprecated]
====

> While this endpoint is still functional, it's usage is discouraged in favor of the Link a User endpoint that takes a top level `identityProviderLink` object since 1.43.0.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
While this endpoint is still functional, its usage is discouraged. Please use the link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/identity-providers/links#link-a-user[Link a User endpoint] which expects an `identityProviderLink` object if your version of FusionAuth is 1.43.0 or above.
```

====

==== Request Body

[.api]
[field]#displayName# [type]#[String]# [optional]#Optional# [since]#Available since 1.28.1#::
A human-readable name for this link when initially created. This value should be used to make it easier to identify the user this link represents in the remote identity provider.
+
After the link is created, and a user first successfully logs in with the IdP they are linked to, this value will typically be set to either an email or username.

[field]#identityProviderId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#::
The Id of the identity provider. This identity provider must exist.

[field]#identityProviderUserId# [type]#[String]# [required]#Required#::
The Id for the User that is provided by the identity provider. This is the value that will allow FusionAuth to link this user on future logins. It is expected to be immutable.

[field]#userId# [type]#[UUID]# [required]#Required#::
The FusionAuth Id of the User that is being linked to the identity provider.

[source,json]
.Example Request JSON
----

> include::docs/src/json/identity-providers/links/create-link-request.json[]

Reviewer 2: Again, would rename this to make it clear it is deprecated.

----
include::docs/src/json/identity-providers/links/pending-link-request.json[]
----
=== Request

> 

Reviewer 2: So this is the preferred method (to wrap everything in the JSON in an `identityProviderLink` object). We should put it first and add deprecated to the other call request method. I don't know if we have an example of an entire call being deprecated, so I'd wing it with what looks good. (you mentioned this in the description of this PR, but it needs to be done before you release it).

I think you should mark the old ones as deprecated, not remove them, since the new method would break with versions before 1.43.

I was confused by the existence of two of the same methods, but now I get it. You might even add a note in front of the old ones, saying something like "This method is functionally equivalent to the above method, but the above method is more consistent with other APIs. Use of this method is deprecated."

You also need to add a `since` field to the new API options.

Author: ![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/12218379/221274029-ac1de3e8-1d71-4a3d-9892-823e76859b9a.png)

[field]#pendingIdPLinkId# [type]#[String]# [required]#Required#::

> The pending identity provider link id.

Reviewer: Use `Id` instead of `id`.

Reviewer: I handled.

[field]#identityProviderLink.userId# [type]#[String]# [required]#Required#::
The Id of the User that is being linked to the identity provider

[source,json]
.Example Request JSON
----
include::docs/src/json/identity-providers/links/pending-link-request-identityProviderLink-in-body.json[]
----

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Complete a pending Link
[WARNING]
====
Deprecated Since 1.43.0.

While this API is still functional, its usage is discouraged. For Versions of FusionAuth that are >= 1.43.0, please use the link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/identity-providers/links#complete-a-pending-link[Complete a Pending Link].
====
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#POST# [uri]#/api/identity-provider/link#
--

==== Request Body

[.api]
[field]#pendingIdPLinkId# [type]#[String]# [required]#Required#::

> The pending identity provider link id.

Reviewer: Use `Id` instead of `id`.

Reviewer: I handled.

include::docs/v1/tech/apis/identity-providers/_links-post-response-body.adoc[]

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Complete a pending Link
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#POST# [uri]#/api/identity-provider/link#
--

[WARNING.deprecated]
====

> While this endpoint is still functional, it's usage is discouraged in favor of the Link a User endpoint that takes a top level `identityProviderLink` object since 1.43.0.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
While this endpoint is still functional, its usage is discouraged. Please use the link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/identity-providers/links#complete-a-pending-link[Complete a Pending Link endpoint] which expects an `identityProviderLink` object if your version of FusionAuth is 1.43.0 or above.
```

The unique Id of the identity provider.

[field]#identityProviderUserId# [type]#[String]# [required]#Required#::

> The Id for the User that is provided by the upstream identity provider. This is the value that will allow FusionAuth to link this user on future logins. It must be immutable.

Reviewer: Expected may be a better choice here- we cannot enforce immutability, this is really up to the IdP. Ideally it is immutable, but it is out of our control.

Reviewer 2: What are the ramifications if it is not immutable? I could go with expected, because as far as I can tell, bad things might happen if it changes.

Reviewer: Nothing bad will happen. (we wouldn't break) 

We just won't consider it the same link, so in a worst case example, if the IdP provided a different value each time we logged in- we'd have `n` links after `n` logins.

Author: Leave as is 👍 @mooreds and @robotdan
